# In-Situ-14C-Production
Calculates underground muon flux from primary CR and accumulates Carbon-14 in Antarctic ice

## File Guide

### Datasets

**Muon Spectrum Tables/** - Muon surface spectrum measurements taken from various papers and recorded roughly in csv files.  The formatting is not ideal, so each one requires different code to read.  If needed, they could be cleaned up using that code and recorded somewhere else.

**proton_fits/** - CORSIKA data generated by IceCube team, converted to fits files

**DomeC_age_scale_Apr2023.csv** - Conversion between depth and ice age at Dome-C, taken from Matlab

**Real_vs_ice_eq_depth.csv** - Conversion between real depth and ice-equivalent depth at Dome-C, taken from Matlab

**Trial_age_scale.csv** - Alternate age scale file?  Unusued in this code, taken from Matlab

### Functional Notebooks

**MCEq Mat 2.ipynb** - This is currently the primary notebook I'm using.  It runs MCEq on each possible primary energy at once and saves that to a matrix (This proccess usually takes ~10 hours and a few GB of storage).  Then it uses that transformation matrix to near-instantly calculate the underground muon spectrum for any primary spectrum.  From there it calculates production rates and 14CO concentrations.

**Muogenic 14C.ipynb** - IN-PROGRESS; restructuring the calculation from the ground up to be better structured, more efficient, and to allow for variant methods in each step

**Surface Muon Spectra.ipynb** - Loads surface muon data from Muon Spectrum Tables and compares against MCEq, daemonflux, and various surface spectrum models

**corsika-read.ipynb** - Converts CORSIKA data (which was too bulky to include in this repository) to fits files

### Junk Notebooks

**MCEq Matrices.ipynb** - First draft of above notebook, now pretty much useless

**MCEq test.ipynb** - My first trials of MCEq, includes some code.  Largely useless, though it has some code for getting particle info from MCEq

**Mute test.ipynb** - My first trials of MUTE.  Largely useless.